---
title: v2.0.3
---

# Changes:

* Log4j security fixes by upgrading to 2.17.1
* Upgrades all components and libraries to current versions as of Jan-2022
* Various bug fixes
* Schema changes to improve performance
* AS_PATH and communities are now Postgres arrays with indexing.  This improves
  performance over using regexp.  The improvement deprecates the as_path_analysis and
  gen_asn_stats tables
* TimescaleDB compression has been added to many tables to improve disk usage
* Retention control has been moved from cron to timescaleDB job process. Retention should now
  be changed via the retention policies.  Status of the jobs can be monitored via
  timescaleDB job status.  See https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/data-retention/ for more details.
* global_ip_rib table has been improved to support updates every 5 minutes
* RPKI validator deprecated and replaced with URL based downloads
* PeeringDB integration


## Upgrade to version 2.0.2

Manually merging the PSQL schema changes is possible, but it is not currently automated.
Unfortunately there are several changes to the schema that make
it difficult to update.  For example, converting from string AS_PATH to array AS_PATH.   For this reason,
it is recommended that you perform a wipe and fresh install.  Future versions should support
auto merge/upgrades operations. 

### Fresh Install to Upgrade

> You can separate the compose file to be deployed using many VMs.  In order to do that, you'll need to
adjust the FQDNs and ports that are used to access resources, such as Kafka and Postgres.

1. Login to your VM and make a backup of the current docker-compose.yml
```cp docker-compose.yml docker-comopose.yml.bk```
2. Run ```OBMP_DATA_ROOT=/var/openbmp docker-compose -p obmp down``` to shutdown and remove the
current deployment. 
3. ```wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenBMP/obmp-docker/main/docker-compose.yml```
4. Update the docker-compose.yml file variables and volumes based on your previous compose file. 
You can use ```diff``` to see the differences that need to be merged/updated.
5. ```rm -f ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/config/do_not_init_db``` to allow the DB to be reinitialized
6. ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data/*``` and ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/ts/*``` to
remove the current postgres data. **Make sure the files are deleted.** If using ```sudo``` the wildcard 
doesn't work. Use ```sudo bash -c ...``` instead.
7. ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/kafka-data/*``` to remove the current Kafka data.
8. ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/zk-data/*; rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/zk-log/*``` to remove the
current zookeeper data.
9. Update Grafana.  
   1. ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/plugins /var/openbmp/grafana/alerting /var/openbmp/grafana/grafana.db```
   2. ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/dashboards/```
   3. ```rm -rf ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/provisioning/```
   4. ```git clone https://github.com/OpenBMP/obmp-grafana.git``` or do a ```git pull```
   5.  ```cp -r obmp-grafana/dashboards obmp-grafana/provisioning ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/```
10. ```OBMP_DATA_ROOT=/var/openbmp docker-compose -p obmp up -d``` to start the new/upgraded version
of OBMP. This will reinitialize the DB.  It does take a little time on initial start. 




