---
title: v2.1.1
---

# v2.1.1 Changes:

* Fix vpnv6/l3vpn next-hop decoding
* Fix ip_rib_log enabling compression to be after hypertable creation
* Add pg_cron to postgres container
* Upgraded postgres container to timescaledb 2.6.0-pg14
* Fix sequence ordering issue with ip_rib_log compression
* Fix psql consumer from being stuck on exit when postgres goes down
* Fix default config to include l3vpn topic to consume

# v2.1.0 Changes:

* Adds L3VPN support
  * L3VPN grafana dashboards
  * L3VPN DB tables, including stats tables to track by peer, RD, and prefix
* Adds a new whois daemon that runs on port 4300 by default
  whois daemon is a whois interface into the looking glass.
* Adds ```shm_size``` to compose to resolve issue with postgres shared memory problems
* Fixes issue with collector crashing with vpnv4 AFI/SAFI messages
* Fixes incorrect RD value for both evpn and l3vpn
* Add peeringdb script to cron job in psql-app container
* Changes collector to no longer accept messages unless router INIT is first received. 
  Messages will be processed if they are valid BMP, but messages will not be added to  
  DB/kafka until the router init is received.  This addresses the issue with port scaner 
  and similar clients connecting to the listening port, resulting in invalid routers and peers
* obmp-collector container now logs to STDOUT instead of /var/log/openbmpd.log
  Use ```docker logs obmp-collector``` to view the collector logs
* Various other bug fixes

---

# Upgrade

```danger
If you haven't upgraded to 2.0.3 yet, you will need to follow the 
[Fresh Upgrade](/install_config/fresh_upgrade.html) instructions.  
```

### Upgrading from 2.0.3
```warning
Only supported for  2.0.3 or greater
```

1. Set the data root
  ```
  export OBMP_DATA_ROOT=/var/openbmp
  ```

2. Upgrade Grafana by copying over the latest provisioning data

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/OpenBMP/obmp-grafana.git
    # OR git pull

    cp -r obmp-grafana/dashboards obmp-grafana/provisioning ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/
    sudo chmod o+rx -R ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/
   
    docker restart obmp-grafana
    ```

    > Make sure the files copied are owned by the container user. If not, provisioning will not load.

3. Upgrade docker compose file to include the latest versions

    ```
    # Get latest compose file  - Your previous file will be saved as docker-compose.yml.<N>
    wget --backups=3 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenBMP/obmp-docker/main/docker-compose.yml  
    ```

4. Update the docker-compose.yml file variables and volumes based on your previous compose file.
    You can use ```diff``` to see the differences that need to be merged/updated.
    ```diff -u docker-compose.yml.1 docker-compose.yml```

5. Update psql-app configuration
    The ```psql-app``` container uses a persistent configuration ```${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/config/obmp-psql.yml```.  
    You will need to update this file to uncomment the ```subscribe_topic_patterns``` list item ```- "openbmp[.]parsed[.]l3vpn"```.

6. Run docker compose to recreate the containers

    ```
    OBMP_DATA_ROOT=${OBMP_DATA_ROOT} docker-compose -p obmp up -d
    ```

## Notes on upgrade
When ```psql-app``` container starts, it'll check if **l3vpn_rib** table exists.  If it does not exist, it will apply
the l3vpn schema changes as well as all the other upgrades. This should upgrade the current postgres DB.

> Some of the upgrade changes rebuild indexes. This can take several minutes

Use ```docker logs -f obmp-psql-app``` to monitor the progress




