---
title: v2.2.x (latest)
---

```note
Containers have the same major.minor number, such as 2.2.x. 
Bug fixes are applied to the containers that changed. For example, psql-app
may be 2.2.1 while postgres is 2.2.0.
``` 

# Release Notes

## grafana:

* Upgraded to 9.1.7
* Updated prefix history dashboards to include down peers. This allows browsing prefix history
  via peers that are down


## collector: v2.2.3

* Fixed issue with NLRI hash not including rib type (Adj-RIB-In/Out, policy Pre/Post).
  Not including the type in the hash resulted in NLRIs from a peer being updated/overwritten
  instead of being added as new for the type. Backwards compatibility is maintained by
  not changing the hash if Adj-Rib-In and Pre-Policy.  If the type is anything other than
  that, the hash will reflect the difference. This will allow both pre/policy policies to
  be in the DB as well as Adj-RIB-Out pre/post. 

* Fixed issue with peer hash not including peer type defined in RFC9069 (Loc-RIB) type difference
 
* Librdkafka upgraded to v1.9.2
  
## collector: v2.2.2

* Removed deb and rpm packages in favor of using docker. These were out of date for a while
* Updated openbmpd.conf default kafka settings to better handle higher
  latency connections
* Add pacing when ingress buffer starts to fill up

## psql-app: v2.2.2

* Records would sometimes get out of sync on Peer UP due the way records were deleted 
  from ```ip_rib``` table. A peer UP will not result in a lock to ensure
  clean start after Peer UP

* Improved performance of inserts and speed of auto vacuum by changing ```base_attribute``` 
  table to no longer get timestamp updated on records that are duplicate. Timestamp in
  the base_attribute table did not add much value as it would be changed
  per NLRI timestamp

* Fixed issue where connections to Postgres were not being closed due to errors. This 
  would cause postgres to report max connections reached

* Fixes #7; Link-State ```unreserved_bw``` is now 128 characters and fixed insert to use ```bigint```
  type for ```admin_group```


## collector: v2.2.1

* Tuned Kafka queue to prevent disconnects with Kafka during full queue times

## psql-app: v2.2.1

* Fixed issue with global IP rib not updating new/first seen prefixes.
  This caused an issue for new peer RIB dumps and when there are new
  prefixes added over time. 
* Added new ```sync_global_ip_rib()``` function. This function can be used
  to refresh/sync the entire global RIB. **THIS CAN TAKE A WHILE TO RUN** 

> **Containers Updated**
> * psql-app - Container will upgrade schema from 2.2.0
 
## postgres: v2.2.1

* Upgrade version to ```timescaledb-ha:pg14-ts2.8```

## All: v2.2.0

* Major performance increase for IP rib inserts/updates.
  A major factor in disk IOPS is related to 
  updating attributes and RIB entries at the same time. This
  in effect duplicates the mount of updates for every NLRI.
  This was not efficient and caused twice as much load on the
  disk when it didn't need to. The ```psql-app``` consumer now
  caches the state of a base_attr hash ID so that it can
  skip updating a hash_id that was already processed. In
  memory cache will auto expire hash_id's processed
  if there are no updates within 20 minutes.

* Changed the ```openbmp/postgres``` container to use
  [TimescaleDB-HA](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-docker-ha) in order to 
  support HA and add the much needed [PostGIS](https://postgis.net) and
  [PGRouting](https://pgrouting.org/). Together these extensions enable better
  analytics and the ability to calcuate shortest paths (e.g., Dijkstra)
  on link-state, BGP as-paths, best paths based on quality, etc. 

* Renamed ```psql-app``` container script ```/usr/local/openbmp/dbip-to-psql.py``` to
  ```/usr/local/openbmp/geo-csv-to-psql.py```.  Added MaxMind City CSV import to the
  import script.  DB-IP or MaxMind CSV files can be imported now.

* Add DB-IP cron job to automatically load [DB-IP] 

* Reworked ```update_global_ip()``` to improve
  performance on global rip updates.  Global
  RIB update will now detect last time it was run
  in order to resume based on that instead of fixed interval.
  Max length of time to go back is 4 hours
  by default. The first param now identifies this value.

* Removed ```prefix_bits``` column from ```ip_rib```. It is no longer needed
  with GIN prefix indexing. This field was wasting space
  and slowing down inserts.

* Removed partitioning on base_attrs and ip_rib
  as it did not improve performance.

* Adjusted base_attrs auto vacuum settings. Auto vacuum is something 
  that will need to be tuned in order to avoid it consuming too
  much disk IOPS/throughput.

* Tuned ```psql-app``` default config to use 4 consumers,
  max writers per thread type defaults to 4.

* Switched HASH indexes to BTREE. Hash indexes
  were performing worse even with equal join/queries.

* Added prefix BTREE index for better equal
  ```ip_rib``` queries

* Fixed ```psql-app``` container **ENABLE_RPKI** and **ENABLE_IRR** to
  only enable if the value is 1.  Previously defining the variable
  with any value would enable the feature.

* Added **ENABLE_DBIP** to enable DB-IP geo data import once a month.
  DB-IP will be imported only once a month and whenever the container
  is restarted.

* Changed IRR import script to import only RADb considering RADb mirrors the others

---

# Geo Coding Import
The 2.2.0 update includes DB-IP auto import script. The import will run only if ```ENABLE_DBIP=1```.  When
enabled, it will run each time the container is restarted and thereafter once a month.  In order to prevent mass downloads,
the cron job will randomize the hour and minute that the script is run. 

# Upgrade

```danger
If you haven't upgraded to 2.1.x yet, you will need to follow the 
[Fresh Upgrade](/install_config/fresh_upgrade.html) instructions.  
```

## Upgrade Options
It is possible to upgrade from 2.1.x, but if data can be purged, the recommendation is to perform a fresh DB upgrade
by following the [Fresh Upgrade](/install_config/fresh_upgrade.html) instructions. 

### Upgrade from 2.2.0

1. Update docker-compose by either downloading the latest or edit it manually. If you edit it manually,
   all you have to do is update the version of the ```psql-app``` to ```image: openbmp/psql-app:2.2.1```

2. Run docker compose up again to recreate the container.  The container will upgrade the schema. 

```
OBMP_DATA_ROOT=${OBMP_DATA_ROOT} docker-compose -p obmp up -d
```

The global IP RIB could be missing prefixes when initial RIB dumps are out of sync with the global rib cron job. The
```sync_global_ip_rib()``` function can be used to sync the global rib.  The function can take a while to run and
will cause a lot of extra disk IOPS. It is recommended to run it after initial RIB dumps.

Run the below to synchronize the global IP RIB table:
```
truncate global_ip_rib;

select sync_global_ip_rib();
```  

### Upgrading from 2.1.x
```warning
Only supported for  2.1.0 or greater
```

1. Set the data root
  ```
  export OBMP_DATA_ROOT=/var/openbmp
  ```

2. Update postgres file owner/uid
[timescaledb-ha](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-docker-ha) sets the postgres user to use uid ```1000```, which
is different than the previous container.  You **MUST** fix the permissions before starting the container.  Run the
below to fix permissions. 

```
sudo chown -R 1000 ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/
sudo chown -R 1000 ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data
sudo chown -R 1000 ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/ts
```

3. update postgres.conf
The new container has some minor changes.  Run the below to update the existing configuration. 

```
export PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/data

openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -nodes -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/L=Seattle/O=OpenBMP/CN=localhost"  \
        -keyout ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data/psql_server.key -out ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data/psql_server.crt -days 2048 \

sed -i -e "s/^\#*ssl_cert_file.*=.*/ssl_cert_file =  '${PGDATA//\//\\\/}\/psql_server.crt'/" ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data/postgresql.conf
sed -i -e "s/^\#*ssl_key_file.*=.*/ssl_key_file =  '${PGDATA//\//\\\/}\/psql_server.key'/" ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data/postgresql.conf
sed -i -e "s/^shared_preload_libraries.*/shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb,pg_cron'/g" ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/postgres/data/postgresql.conf
```

4. Upgrade Grafana by copying over the latest provisioning data

    ```
    git clone https://github.com/OpenBMP/obmp-grafana.git
    # OR git pull

    cp -r obmp-grafana/dashboards obmp-grafana/provisioning ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/
    sudo chmod o+rx -R ${OBMP_DATA_ROOT}/grafana/
   
    docker restart obmp-grafana
    ```

    > Make sure the files copied are owned by the container user. If not, provisioning will not load.

5. Upgrade docker compose file to include the latest versions

    ```
    # Get latest compose file  - Your previous file will be saved as docker-compose.yml.<N>
    wget --backups=3 https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenBMP/obmp-docker/main/docker-compose.yml  
    ```

6. Update the docker-compose.yml file variables and volumes based on your previous compose file.
    You can use ```diff``` to see the differences that need to be merged/updated.
    ```diff -u docker-compose.yml.1 docker-compose.yml```

7. Run docker compose to recreate the containers

    ```
    OBMP_DATA_ROOT=${OBMP_DATA_ROOT} docker-compose -p obmp up -d
    ```

8. Apply postgres run-time changes
Run the below after postgres is up and running/accepting connections.  If you get
```
FATAL:  the database system is starting up
```

try again later. 


```
docker exec -it obmp-psql-app bash

# Run the below once in the container
source /usr/local/openbmp/pg_profile

psql -U $POSTGRES_USER -c "CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS postgis CASCADE;" $POSTGRES_DB
psql -U $POSTGRES_USER -c "CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS pgrouting CASCADE;" $POSTGRES_DB
psql -U $POSTGRES_USER -c "ALTER EXTENSION timescaledb UPDATE;" $POSTGRES_DB
psql -U $POSTGRES_USER -c "ALTER EXTENSION pg_cron UPDATE;" $POSTGRES_DB

```





